\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename emqttb.info
@settitle EMQTTB
@c %**end of header

@dircategory EMQTTB: an MQTT load generator.
@direntry
* EMQTTB: (emqttb).
@end direntry

@copying
A scriptable autotuning MQTT load generator.

Copyright @copyright{} 2022-2025 EMQ Technologies Co., Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

@end copying

@include schema.texi

@c The document itself

@titlepage
  @title EMQTTB
  @subtitle A scriptable autotuning MQTT load generator
  @page
  @vskip 0pt plus 1filll
  @insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
  @node Top
  @top EMQTTB

  @insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
  @include intro.texi

@node Invokation
@chapter Invokation
EMQTTB executable accepts named CLI arguments (such as @option{--foo} or -f positional arguments and actions. Actions are special CLI arguments that start with @@ character (e.g. @option{@@pub}). Actions correspond to different load-generation scenarios, such as @option{@@pub} and @option{@@sub}, client group configurations (@option{@@g}) and autorates (@option{@@g}).

Each CLI action defines its own scope of named and positional CLI arguments. Positional arguments are always specified after named arguments within the scope. There is also a global scope of arguments that don’t belong to any action. Global arguments are specified before the very first action.

Example:

@example
emqttb --foo --bar 1 positional1 positional2 @@action1 --foo 1 positional1 @@action2 ...
       |___________| |_____________________|          |_________________|
       |regular args    positional args    |            action1 scope
       |___________________________________|
                 global scope
@end example

Flag negation:

Boolean flag arguments can be set to false by adding @code{no-} prefix, for example @option{--no-pushgw}.

Short boolean flags can be set to false using @code{+} sigil instead of @code{-}.

@node CLI
@section CLI Arguments
@lowersections
  @include cli_param.texi
@raisesections

@node OS Environment Variables
@section OS Environment Variables
@lowersections
  @include os_env.texi
@raisesections

@node Autorate
@chapter Autorate
  @include autorate_descr.texi

@node All Values
@chapter All Configurable Values
  @include value.texi

@node Index
  @unnumbered Index

  @syncodeindex vr cp
  @syncodeindex fn cp
  @printindex cp

@bye
